Here I feel a certain hesitancy towards expressing myself through text, as my feelings — towards all those who have helped bring me to this point — seem to defy projection down into the explicit nature of words on paper. Rather, I remember the ephemeral and transient moments in between, filled with a shared sense of respect, joy, and camaraderie. In writing this, I may fail to capture the essence of shared connection, or the peculiarities of these many special relationships. Nevertheless I can't deny the permanence of paper, or its ability to fill in the gaps and let be known that which I never conveyed. In no particular order, I'd like to acknowledge and thank the following individuals. 

To my mentor, Boris Korzh, your guidance has been invaluable. Your expertise and true attention to detail during my early years shaped my understanding of cryostats, amplifiers, and our detectors. Always contemplating the next challenge, you defined for me the form of high quality rigorous research. Raju Valivarthi, your everyday advice in quantum network research has been instrumental. Your humility, friendliness, and vast knowledge have made a lasting impact. Nikolai Lauk, our engaging conversations in Chicago about life and research remain etched in my memory. Your role as a theory advisor and mentor enriched my academic journey. Ioana Craiciu, your passion for meaningful science brightened my days. Our lunch discussions, about anything from the true color of water to the nuances of human color vision, were joyful and memorable. Emma Wollman, your commitment, dependability, and rational voice made our meetings fruitful. Neil Sinclair, your friendly demeanor and down-to-earth approach made learning quantum optics a pleasure. Yewon Gim, your inspiring attitude and wit have left a lasting impression on me, years after we last worked together. Finally, Cristian Peña, your introduction to teleportation, SNSPDs, and quantum optics was instrumental in defining the rest of my PhD journey. 

Turning to my friends and colleagues, Sahil Patel, you were not just a great lab partner but also an excellent friend. I'm so glad we got you back after your JPL internship, and I hope our friendship lasts and grows in the years to come. Eddy Ramirez, your humility continually reminded me of what a privilege it is to be a part of this community. Samantha Davis, your skills in quantum mechanics and scientific rigor were truly inspirational, as was your determination to bring a hardworking and positive attitude to your many projects. Jamie Luskin, your candid and lively presence in the lab kept our group dynamic, fun, and interesting. We could always count on you to spice up our lunch table conversation. Gregor Taylor, I greatly appreciated your Scottish wit, attitude toward work-life balance, and climbing prowess. I can't fathom why you would be reading this now, when you could be biking up a mountain. Emmanuel Knehr, our thoughtful conversations during long hikes remain cherished memories. Jason Allmaras, your work ethic and technical prowess set a standard for PhD excellence. You helped define for me what impactful, professional research looks like. Sasha Sypkens, I appreciated your friendly presence and found your explanations of your multiplexing research very compelling. I wish we found more time to share nerdy Star Trek trivia. Tony LaTorre, I learned a lot from you and enjoyed our conversions.  Lautaro Narvaez, thank you for being a dependable source of electronics expertise. I am continually compelled by your affinity for diverse forms of hot sauce. Rahaf Youssef, our discussions about research, literature, and society were always fulfilling. It was my pleasure to work with you on digital phase locked loops. Prathwiraj Umesh, your respect, technical acumen, and humor made working together very much enjoyable. 

To my main advisors, Maria Spiropulu, your daring and passionate mentorship made much of this work possible. I am eternally grateful for the opportunities you provided and for guiding me throughout these years. And Matt Shaw, your positivity, honesty, and genuine concern for me and your other students has very much inspired me. 

I wish to thank the others who played pivotal roles in this journey. Jason Trevor, your expertise in lab logistics and engineering proved invaluable. Alex Walter, thank you for guiding me through the intricacies of Python. Fiona Fleming, I very much enjoyed sharing equipment with you and getting to know you. Andrew Beyer, your exceptional wafers laid the foundation for all the work accomplished here. Hannah Rana, your voice of reason during our lunches was truly appreciated. And finally a special thanks to Tracy Sheffer for meticulously organizing the logistics of my travel, conferences, and final defense.

Lastly, I wish to thank my family. Mom and Dad, I am so grateful for your always-present love and support. 

To all those mentioned, and to all I have failed to include, thank you for contributing to my academic journey in your unique ways. Each of you has left an indelible mark on this chapter of my life, and for that, I am sincerely grateful.


