\documentclass[11pt]{caltech_thesis} % font size must be changed in the caltech_thesis.cls file. 
% [11pt] has no effect here
\usepackage[hyphens]{url}
\usepackage{lipsum}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{todonotes}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{mathpazo}
\usepackage[numbers,sort&compress]{natbib}
\usepackage{csquotes}
\usepackage{bibunits}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{xcolor} 
\usepackage{indentfirst} 
\usepackage{upgreek} % for non-italic greek letters (units)
\usepackage[outputdir=../]{minted} % for code highlighting
\definecolor{CaltechOrange}{HTML}{FF6C0C}
\definecolor{midnightblue}{HTML}{3F3F9E}
\definecolor{darkred}{HTML}{BA1A1A}
\definecolor{extralightgray}{HTML}{F5F5F5}
\usepackage[hidelinks=true,
            colorlinks=true, 
            linkcolor=black,
            urlcolor=CaltechOrange, 
            linkbordercolor=white,
            backref=false,
            pagebackref=false,
            hyperindex=false,
            breaklinks=true,
            bookmarks=false,
            bookmarksopen=false,
            ]{hyperref}
\usepackage[
            backend=biber,natbib,
            % IMPORTANT: load a style suitable for your discipline
            style=ieee
        ]{biblatex}


% added to conform with this issue: https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/issues/4384
% with this, figure width can be changed with {width: 70%}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}

\hypersetup{
  colorlinks = true,
  linkcolor = black
}

\makeatletter
\let\@mycite\@cite
\def\@cite#1#2{{\hypersetup{linkcolor=black!60!black}[{#1\if@tempswa , #2\fi}]}}
\makeatother
            
\addbibresource{references_cleaned.bib}
\defaultbibliographystyle{plainnat}
\renewcommand{\bibsection}{\section*{\refname}}
\usepackage{memhfixc}
\linespread{1.5}


\begin{document}

\title{Towards Precise Quantum Measurements with Superconducting
Nanowire Single Photon Detectors}
\author{Andrew Sterling Mueller}
\degreeaward{Doctor of Philosophy in Applied Physics}                 
\university{California Institute of Technology}    
\address{Pasadena, California}                     
\unilogo{caltech.png}                                 
\copyyear{2024}  
\defenddate{November 2023}   
       
\orcid{0000-0002-6598-9732}



\rightsstatement{Some rights reserved. This thesis is distributed under
a Creative Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0. All software used in
the analysis and generation of figures is distributed under an MIT
license, and is available on a GitHub repository
\href{https://github.com/sansseriff/phd_thesis}{https://github.com/sansseriff/phd\textunderscore thesis}}

\maketitle[logo]

\begin{acknowledgements}   
    \input{frontmatter/acknowledgements.md}
\end{acknowledgements}

\begin{abstract}
  \input{frontmatter/abstract.md} 
\end{abstract}

\extrachapter{Published Content and Contributions}
\begin{publishedcontent}
\input{frontmatter/published.md}
\end{publishedcontent}

\tableofcontents
\listoffigures
\listoftables
\printnomenclature
\mainmatter

\hypertarget{low-dark-count-rate-detection}{%
\chapter{Low Dark Count Rate
Detection}\label{low-dark-count-rate-detection}}

The work described in this chapter culminated in the research paper:
Andrew S. Mueller, Boris Korzh, Marcus Runyan, Emma E. Wollman, Andrew
D. Beyer, Jason P. Allmaras, Angel E. Velasco, Ioana Craiciu, Bruce
Bumble, Ryan M. Briggs, Lautaro Narvaez, Cristián Peña, Maria Spiropulu,
and Matthew D. Shaw, ``Free-space coupled superconducting nanowire
single-photon detector with low dark counts,''
\href{https://opg.optica.org/optica/fulltext.cfm?uri=optica-8-12-1586\&id=465726}{Optica
8, 1586-1587 (2021)}

Boriz Korzh provided extensive assistance during ideation, construction,
testing, and copyediting phases of the experiment. Bruce Bumble designed
the elevated 0.8 K stage and innovated translation system using flexible
carbon fiber rods. Jason Trevor provided technical assistance with the
implementation of a nitrogen flow bag. Sahil Patel assisted with editing
the manuscript.

\hypertarget{abstract}{%
\section{Abstract}\label{abstract}}

\emph{A free-space coupled superconducting nanowire single photon
detector with high efficiency at 1550 nm, sub-0.1 Hz dark count rate,
and sub-15 ps timing jitter is demonstrated.}

\hypertarget{background}{%
\subsubsection{Background}\label{background}}

Superconducting nanowire single photon detectors are high sensitive
devices. Any stray photons from a laboratory environment can make their
way into these devices and produce a detection. These detections are
commonly called dark counts or false counts. Dark counts can be present
in any situation where the detector is coupled to some experiment or
apparatus outside the cryogenic environment. This coupling may be
through windows inside the cryostat housing and radiations shields, or
through optical fibers that carry single-mode signals directly to
detectors.

Visible, near-infrared, and mid-infrared photons are often the main
sources of dark counts, because they are ubiquitous in a laboratory
environment and are transmitted through common types of fibers and
windows. Assuming visible light can be blocked from entering the
detector system, the blackbody emission of the room temperature
laboratory environment presents is the primary source of dark counts.
The spectrum of blackbody photons, defined by Planck's law, is peaked at
about $10~\mathrm{\upmu m}$, though it can contribute dark counts at
significant rates up through near-infrared wavelengths.

Without filtering in fiber or free space, dark counts from blackbody
emission will overload most SNSPDs and overpower the extremely faint
signal of interest.

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Time-resolved photon detection with low dark counts is a vital
technology in fields such as quantum information processing, classical
communication, quantum communication, and laser ranging. Increasingly,
research in these fields employs superconducting nanowire single photon
detectors (SNSPDs), which have been demonstrated with system detection
efficiency ($\eta$) of more than 90\% \autocite{Reddy2020}, timing
jitter ($\Delta t$) as low as 2.6 ps \autocite{Korzh2020} and intrinsic
dark count rates ($D$) in the milli- to micro-hertz range
\autocite{Hochberg2019}. However, quantum communication applications
require detection systems with performance optimized across all three
metrics simultaneously. The dimensionless figure of merit $H$ specifies
this application-specific performance as
$H = \frac{\eta}{(\Delta t D)}$\textasciitilde{}\autocite{Hadfield2009}.

Here, we focus on lowering the Dark Count Rate (DCR) of a telecom-band
SNSPD system by filtering thermal photons, without sacrificing
efficiency or jitter. We demonstrate a free-space coupled SNSPD with
sub-0.1 Hz DCR, 14 ps timing jitter, and 72\% total system detection
efficiency (SDE) by using a differential single-pixel SNSPD
\autocite{Colangelo2021} to image a single-mode fiber through an
optimized free-space filter stack.

The highest system detection efficiencies have been achieved using
self-aligned fiber coupling where dark counts can be reduced using
cryogenic fiber looping \autocite{Cohen2015} or spliced narrow-band
filters \autocite{Boaron2018secure}. But it is difficult to achieve
strong filtering without losses at the target wavelength. Low-loss,
high-rejection filters are typically available as free-space components,
so some of the highest reported H-values were achieved with cryogenic,
fiber to free-space to fiber coupling, but exhibit an SDE of only a few
percent \autocite{Shibata2015}. The filtering method presented here
takes advantage of commercially-available filters, achieves a high
free-space coupling efficiency using a cryogenic lens, and is compatible
with both fiber and free-space optical inputs.

In this work, a single mode fiber is imaged onto the detector using two
f = 18.75 mm lenses. One lens collimates light from an optical fiber
face outside the cryostat (Photon Spot), and the other focuses light
onto the detector inside \autocite{Bellei:16}. In the collimated region
between, the beam passes though a series of short-pass filters and one
band-pass filter mounted at 4 K (Fig. \ref{fig:setup}a). One of the
short-pass filters is angled to avoid ghosting effects. The 40 K
radiation shield and outer cryostat housing are fitted with
anti-reflection coated BK7 windows. The filters are spring loaded to
prevent cracking at low temperatures. To minimize effects of stray
light, the interior of the 4 K shield was painted with mid-IR absorbing
paint (Aeroglaze Z306) \autocite{Persky1999}, while gaps between filters
and the windows were covered with metal tape.

The system is based on 1-inch optics, although the f = 18.75 mm lenses
lead to a $1/e^2$ intensity diameter of about 5 mm in the collimated
region. To reduce the larger-than-required numerical aperture of the
system, painted 8 mm apertures (Acktar Spectral Black) were added in the
collimated region. These are large enough to allow minor alignment
adjustments --- by translating the exterior collimating lens --- without
vignetting.

\hypertarget{fig:dcrmin_data}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{chapter_01/figs_01/DataFigure_6.pdf}
\caption[{Low Dark Count Rate Project Results.}]{\textbf{Low Dark Count
Rate Project Results} a) Simulated photon flux at various temperatures
with and without the 1550 nm bandpass filter (BP). b) Normalized photon
count rate (PCR) and jitter measurements c) DCR, and calculated figure
of merit $H$ versus bias current for both fiber-coupled and free space
coupled configurations.}
\label{fig:dcrmin_data}
\end{figure}
}

We use four custom cryogenic short-pass filters, with pass-bands below
$1.6 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$ and $1.9 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$ (Andover Corp.),
both with transmission at 1550 nm of 98.8 ± 0.3\%. They reject
wavelengths shorter than $3 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$ through reflective
optical coatings, and attenuate longer wavelengths through material
absorption in the 12.7 mm-thick N-BK7 glass substrate. While the
bandpass filter (FWHM = 7 nm) was found to blue-shift by about 2 nm at
cryogenic temperatures, the passband was wide enough such that
significant attenuation was not observed at the original target
wavelength of 1550 nm. This filter is also sufficiently wide to avoid
Fourier-limited broadening of ultra-short laser pulses.

The filtering of the optical stack was modeled by assuming a black-body
emitter at 298 K and a field of view defined by the 18.75 mm focal
length of the cryogenic lens and the 8 mm diameter of the apertures. The
resulting spectrum was multiplied by the transmission of the filters
(Fig. \ref{fig:setup}b) and detector optical stack (Fig.
\ref{fig:setup}c). The model showed that two each of the
$1.6 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$ and $1.9 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$ short pass filters
were necessary to suppress mid-infrared light to where it was no longer
the dominant source of dark counts. With the inclusion of the four
shortpass filters, the dominant source of dark counts is the spectral
region near 1550 nm as shown in Fig. \ref{fig:false-color}a, which also
illustrates the effect of the bandpass filter. Also evident in Fig.
\ref{fig:false-color}a is the strong dependence of DCR on the
temperature of the final surface outside the cryostat emitting thermal
radiation. This motivated the exterior cooling apparatus shown at the
bottom of Fig. \ref{fig:setup}a. The bulkhead holding the fiber
connector is cooled to around -2$^\circ$C using a Peltier element and
liquid cooling block. This addition reduced the system DCR from 0.4 Hz
to below 0.1 Hz. While dark counts from multiple spatial modes are
present in this system --- modes that would not be present in a purely
fiber based approach --- the external cooling technique works to
minimize their effect.

This work used a low-jitter, differential SNSPD \cite{Colangelo2021},
with an active area of $22 \times 15 \ \mathrm{\upmu m}$, formed by a
meander of 100 nm-wide and 5-nm-thick niobium nitride (NbN) nanowires on
a 500 nm pitch. A more conventional single-ended readout SNSPD of
similar area would also achieve low DCR in this coupling system, but
would likely achieve a lower performance metric $H$ from correspondingly
higher jitter. The nanowire is embedded in an efficiency-enhancing
optical stack made of alternating layers of TiO$_2$ and SiO$_2$ and a
gold mirror layer. As shown in Fig. \ref{fig:false-color}b and c, when
fiber coupled (without any fiber-based filtering methods applied), this
detector achieved a saturated SDE of $84\% \pm 4.4 \%$ and a DCR of 20
Hz at a bias current of $16\ \mathrm{\upmu A}$.

~~~~~ As also shown in Fig. \ref{fig:false-color}b, the free-space
coupling system achieves up to $72 \% \pm 3.7 \%$ SDE as measured from
the fiber outside the cryostat. The reduction in efficiency is likely
due to surface reflections in the free-space optics, and potential
misalignment in the optical baffles. The minimum DCR (Fig.
\ref{fig:false-color}c) at $72 \%$ SDE is about 0.1 Hz, with a bias
current of 16 $\mathrm{\upmu A}$. These metrics, with the jitter
measurements shown in Fig. \ref{fig:false-color}b, give a maximum H
value of $5 \times 10^{11}$ (Fig. \ref{fig:false-color}c). Values as
high as $1.8 \times 10^{12}$ have been reported before, but at 1.5\%
system detection efficiency \cite{Shibata2015}. Our system shows a low
DCR can be achieved without severe reduction of SDE or usable target
wavelength bandwidth. This is paramount for the future of terrestrial
and space-to-ground quantum communication, since it increases success
rate with finite statistics \cite{Boaron2018secure}. The same techniques
can be applied to emerging SNSPD applications at longer wavelengths,
such as laser ranging \cite{Taylor2019}, where fiber filtering is
impractical. Beyond single-mode applications, our work paves the way to
scalable, low-DCR, multi-mode coupling to SNSPD arrays
\cite{Wollman2019}.

\hypertarget{fig:custom_figure}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_01/figs_01/Figure_Data_Sept_2022_light.pdf}
\caption[{A jitterate data figure.}]{\textbf{Figure Title.} And I think
the rest of this is the caption with (A), (B), and (C) callouts}
\label{fig:custom_figure}
\end{figure}
}

Finally, here's a png figure for testing

\hypertarget{fig:test_png_figure}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_01/figs_01/fridge.png}
\caption[{A png figure.}]{\textbf{A test png figure.} And here is where
I'd put in more information about the png.}
\label{fig:test_png_figure}
\end{figure}
}

Remember there's a lot of optics stuff you got good at, like how to
focus a spot inside the fridge using only optics outside the fridge. How
you used the xyz stage on the fiber for that, and the xy or the mirror.
How you defocused the laser to see the detector when you were using the
narroband filter.

\hypertarget{time-walk-and-jitter-correction}{%
\chapter{Time Walk and Jitter
Correction}\label{time-walk-and-jitter-correction}}

\hypertarget{abstract-1}{%
\section{Abstract}\label{abstract-1}}

~~~~~

\hypertarget{introduction-1}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction-1}}

\hypertarget{method}{%
\section{Method}\label{method}}

Method here

\hypertarget{conclusion}{%
\section{Conclusion}\label{conclusion}}

conclusion here

\hypertarget{the-peacoq-detector-and-higher-order-correction-methods}{%
\section{The Peacoq Detector, and Higher Order Correction
Methods}\label{the-peacoq-detector-and-higher-order-correction-methods}}

Peacoq data and stuff here

{}

\hypertarget{outlook}{%
\section{Outlook}\label{outlook}}

outlook discussion here

\hypertarget{data-recovery-and-pulse-position-modulation-with-a-photon-number-resolving-snspd}{%
\chapter{Data Recovery and Pulse Position Modulation with a Photon
Number Resolving
SNSPD}\label{data-recovery-and-pulse-position-modulation-with-a-photon-number-resolving-snspd}}

A version of this chapter will appear as Optix Express arciel
XXX\ldots{}

\hypertarget{abstract-2}{%
\section{Abstract}\label{abstract-2}}

Superconducting Nanowire Single Photon Detectors are a type of
time-correlated photon detector with low jitter performance especially
in the mid-infrared. They are useful for classical communication over
high loss channels --such as across deep space-- and for quantum
communication for which signals are restricted to the few-photon level.
For classical communication, high photon information efficiency
communication may be achieved with Pulse Position Modulation (PPM)
whereby data is encoded in the arrival time of an optical pulse with
respect to a clock. In the process of demonstrating PPM on a 20~Ghz
clock, we study the effects of Photon Number Resolution (PNR) in new
low-jitter types of SNSPDs. These PNR effects complicate fixed-threshold
triggering of RF pulses from the SNSPD, and corrupt arrival time
measurements if not properly managed. We demonstrate methods for
simultaneous arrival time and photon number measurement which enables
high clock rate PPM for space applications as well as high rate quantum
communication and computing applications that benefit from photon number
resolution.

\hypertarget{introduction-2}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction-2}}

Deep space optical communication has been a growing field of study in
recent years, as space agencies look for ways to increase data rates to
and from deep space missions. A key challenge in the development of this
technology is closing the communication link over extremely large
distances and high loss. This must be done given a restricted power
budget available on the spacecraft, and therefore requires the use of
photon efficient communication protocols that optimize the number of
bits sent per unit of energy.

In this article, we demonstrate high rate Pulse Position Modulation
(PPM) applicable to future deep space communication. This starts with a
transmitter that sends an optical pulse in one of $2^M$ possible time
slots measured with respect to a clock. At a receiver, the arrival time
of this pulse is measured to recover $M$ bits of encoded data. Each
successive set of $2^M$ time slots following by a dead time constitute a
PPM frame.

The Deep Space Optical Communicaiton (DSOC) project managed by the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) aims to demonstrate optical communication
using PPM with the Psyche spacecraft from distances of 0.06 to 2.7 Au
\autocite{Srinivasan2023GroundReceiver}.

For larger M, more data may be sent with a single optical pulse, thereby
allowing a power limited spacecraft to send more data over a high loss
optical channel back to earth. This is quantified through the photon
information efficiency $c_p = C/E$ where $C$ is the link capacity and
$E$ is the photon cost per optical pulse

The DSOC project uses M at least as high as 5, meaning 5 bits of data
are send using 32 time slots per frame. M values as high as 19 have been
demonstrated in the lab\textasciitilde{}\autocite{essiambre2023record},
but the number of time bins needed per frame scales exponentially with
the number of bits transmitted per pulse. Therefore, for a given fixed
clock rate and time bin duration, the PPM data rate decreases
dramatically for higher M values.

We demonstrate a high clock rate PPM protocol in the lab based on
modulating a mode-locked laser and receiving pulses with a low jitter
superconducting nanowire single photon detector (SNSPD)
(Fig.~\ref{fig:intro} (a)).We focus on demonstrating moderately large
PIE, while also increasing the clock rate of the sytem by an order of
magnitude relative to the DSOC platform (2\textasciitilde GHz). By
operating at both higher clock rate and PIE than DSOC, this system
exemplifies how future iterations of DSOC may send data more quickly but
also over greater distances with the same power budget.

The rate increase is possible due to recent advancements in Niobium
Nitride SNSPDs\textasciitilde{}\autocite{Colangelo2023}. These achieve
low jitter performance by incorporating impedance matching tapers for
efficient RF coupling, resulting in higher slew rate pulses, and by
enabling RF pulse readout from both ends of the nanowire. The dual-ended
readout allows for the cancellation of jitter caused by the variable
location of photon arrival along the meander when the differential
signals are recombined with a balun. These detectors achieve jitter as
low as 50 ps at the FW(1/100)M level, making them suitable for the
demonstration of PPM with 50 ps slot widths and a 20 GHz clock.

\hypertarget{fig:intro}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_03/figs_03/fig_intro_2_light.pdf}
\caption[{PPM modulation and experiment setup}]{\textbf{PPM modulation
and experiment setup} a) Diagram of the expiremental setup. WG: wave
generator, CD: clock divider board, AWG: Arbitrary Waveform Generator,
MLL: Mode Locked Laser (Pritel UAC), IM: Intensity Modulator, BC: Bias
Controller, FSC: Free Space Coupling System, DCA: DC Coupled Cryo-amp b)
How bits are transmitted in M=16 PPM modulation. An optical pulse is
transmitted with a clock-referenced integer delay which encodes 4 bits
of data. c) \textcolor{orange}{XXXXXXXX}}
\label{fig:intro}
\end{figure}
}

However, these detectors exhibit photon number number dependent
responses that affect the time-correlated measurements needed for
high-rate PPM. This behavior, shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:waveform} is also
known as photon number resolution (PNR) -- a property that is desirable
in certain applications including quantum communication and quantum
computing. The SNSPD generates RF pulses with greater amplitude and slew
rate when detecting optical pulses with multiple photons. Photon number
effects are especially evident in this lower jitter variety of SNSPD due
to the use of impedance matching tapers which more efficiently couple
energy out of the nanowire and into the readout circuit. With high
resolution time tagging equipment, photon number dependent effects have
even been observed in SNSPDs not necessarily designed to exhibit it
\autocite[\textcite{sauer2023resolving}]{schapeler2023superconducting}
like those without tapers \autocite{Cahall2017SlewRatePNR}. Therefore it
is increasingly likely that future research involving low-jitter SNSPDs
and multiphoton pulsed sources will have to explicitly manage the PNR
response for accurate time-correlated measurements -- whether the effect
it is desired or not.

For the tapered differential detectors, the PNR response affects timing
of fixed threshold timetaggs at any trigger level
(Fig.~\ref{fig:waveform}). However, at higher trigger levels the PNR
response is less pronounced and the timing measurements are less
affected. Therefore, we divide a single SNSPD readout line using an RF
splitter and trigger on the RF pulse at a high and low level as shwon by
the red lines in Fig.~\ref{fig:waveform}. This allows us to extract the
somewhat conjugate information of pulse arrival time and photon number.
From these measurements we study the PNR response in detail and present
two methods for managing it. We demonstrate how the photon number
information may be deconvolved from the arrival time information, and
how both de-correlated degrees of freedom can be extracted
simultaneously. This enables the original goal of high rate PPM, but
also informs how low-jitter photon number resolving SNSPDs can be used
in other classical communication and quantum applications.

\hypertarget{fig:waveform}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.8\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_03/figs_03/waveform_light.pdf}
\caption[{PNR-sensitive Pulse Waveform}]{\textbf{PNR-sensitive Pulse
Waveform} The rising edge of the differential SNSPD's RF pulses exhibit
variations in height, slew rate, and arrival time due to photon-number
dependent dynamics. The slopes of the 1-photon and 2-photon pulses
significantly differ, and as the photon number increases, the
alterations to the pulse shape become progressively smaller. Trigger
levels A (8~mV) and B (50~mV) were used to extract as much information
about pulse slope and arrival time as possible}
\label{fig:waveform}
\end{figure}
}

\hypertarget{detector-figure-of-merit}{%
\section{Detector Figure of Merit}\label{detector-figure-of-merit}}

The work here highlights the application of low jitter single-photon
detectors for optical communication, which is impactful for deep-space
optical communication as well as classical communication in quantum
networks. Although single-photon counting is well estanblished for
deep-space optical
communication\textasciitilde{}\autocite{Srinivasan2023GroundReceiver} so
far it has not been ulitized in quantum networks, mainly due to the use
of SFP modules and DWDMs. However, with the eachievement of high data
rates recently achieved with photon-counting classical communication,
these approaches can now be seriously considered for quantum networks.
The main driver is the reduction of optical power in neighbouring DWDM
channels, which ultimately lowers the Raman scattered photons into the
quantum channel \autocite{EraerdsRaman} \textcolor{orange}{Calculate
reduction in power from state of the art SFP modules}

To access the applicability of different detectors, here we compare some
of the recent near infrared detectors.

A useful figure of merit that includes all of the revelant detector
metrics for photon timing was introduced by Bronzi and co-authors
\autocite{Bronzi2016}

$$FoM_T = \frac{\eta  (1 - P_{ap})\Phi_{-3 \text{dB}}}{J} \sqrt{\frac{A}{D}},$$

where $\eta$ is the single photon detection efficiency,
$\Phi_{-3 \text{dB}}$ is the photon flux at which the system detection
efficiency drops by 3\textasciitilde dB, $P_{ap}$ is the afterpulsing
probability, $J$ is the detector jitter evaluated as the FWHM, $T_d$ is
the deadtime, $A$ is the active area and $D$ is the dark count rate.
Here we have defined the maximum photon flux as the 3\textasciitilde dB
point, for ease of standardization.

In this work:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Efficiency = 0.84
\item
  Afterpulsing = 0 \%
\item
  Jitter = 15 ps
\item
  Deadtime = 30 ns \textcolor{orange}{measure 3dB flux}
\item
  Area = 330 $\mu m^2$
\item
  Dark count rate = 20~Hz
\end{itemize}

$FoM_T = 7.58 \times 10^{12}$ at 1550 nm.

The deadtime is calculated as the 1/MCR, which is the 3 dB point of the
nominal efficiency. This is only a factor of 3.7 less than the state of
the art visible Silicon SPADs (peak efficiency at 480~nm)
\autocite{Gramuglia2022}

In the future, the performance of the optical communication system could
be improved by using, high count rate SNSPD arrays. Recently published
high-count rate arrays have figures of merit of
\textcolor{orange}{$FoM_T$ for Peacoq and Resta2023 results}. This would
result in a proportinal increase in the data rate.
\textcolor{orange}{$FoM_T$ for fastest InGaAs/InP gated detector} These
devices are ideal for fiber-based optical communication. In free-space,
the active area is especially important, whithout the use of an adaptive
optics system. \textcolor{orange}{$FoM_T$ for DSOC array}

\hypertarget{development-of-a-modulation-source}{%
\subsection{Development of a modulation
source}\label{development-of-a-modulation-source}}

DSOC relies on modulation of a CW seed laser to generate the
communication signal on the spacecraft. This signal is then amplified by
an Erbium Doped Fiber Amplifier (EDFA) to increase its transmission
power to Earth. As the EDFA amplifies the pre-generated pulses and uses
most of the power of the spacecraft optical transmission system, power
consumption scales with the number of optical pulses.

We produce our PPM signal signal by carving a high rate mode locked
laser with lithium niobate modulators. This way, the jitter of the
optical pulses themselves are not limited by the modulators or slew slew
rate of the RF signal that drives them. We do two PPM demonstrations,
with the source mode locked laser operating at 10.75 and 20 GHz. THe
10.75 GHz demonstration uses a M value of 10, thereby making frames with
1024 time slots of 93 ps width each. The 20 GHz demonstration uses M=11,
giving 2048 time slots of 50 ps width per frame. Each frame ends with a
dead time of approximately 150 ns to allow the SNSPD to fully recover
before the next frame.

Several modern free running time taggers support the averaging of
multiple input channels to create fewer higher resolution channels. This
implies a tradeoff between jitter or timing resolution and number of
channels for a given time tagging device. Therefore, it is important to
consider readout methods like that presented here that make use of 2
lower-resolution channels in place of a single higher resolution
channel, as these two configurations are similarly resource efficient.

\hypertarget{methods}{%
\section{Methods}\label{methods}}

Prior to the PPM demosntration, we collected data with multi-photon
optical pulses repeatedly impinging on the detector at the same time
with respect to a clock. This way, we study how the PNR effect in
isolation is manifest in the timing measurements recorded at the low and
high trigger levels. We label the measurements from the low
(8\textasciitilde mV) and high (50\textasciitilde mV) trigger levels as
$t_A$ and $t_B$ respectively. As shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:waveform},
histograms of these arrival events are multimodal due to the PNR
response. We first present a method for recovering a symmetric arrival
time response function using the the slope measurement
$\Delta t_{BA} = t_B - t_A$.

\hypertarget{slope-based-correction}{%
\subsection{Slope-Based Correction}\label{slope-based-correction}}

\hypertarget{fig:slope_correction}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.75\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_03/figs_03/slope_cancellation_light.pdf}
\caption[{PNR Slope Variation Analysis and Cancellation}]{\textbf{PNR
Slope Variation Analysis and Cancellation} a) 2D histogram of RF pulse
measurements. Through graphing slope $\Delta t_{BA}$ on the x-axis and
arrival time $t_A$ on the y-axis, a series of groupings are visible that
identify the discrete photon numbers detected.}
\label{fig:slope_correction}
\end{figure}
}

Pairs of pulse measurements $t_A$ and $t_B$ may be graphed on a 2D plane
parametrized by $\Delta t_{BA}$ on the x-axis and $t_A$.
Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a shows how this protection exhibits
multiple groupings that correspond the the photon number character of
the impinging optical mode. The 1 and 2-photon events are clearly
identifiable and seperated from other events, with $|3\rangle$,
$|4\rangle$, and $|5\rangle$ events also visible with less mutual
separation. While Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a is shown here for
just one mean photon number $\mu$, these grouplings are collected for a
full range of attenuations and corresponding $\mu$.
Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a shows histograms from projecting 3
such groupings down onto the $\Delta t_{BA}$ axis.

Thee slope correction method involves the measurement and creation of a
slope-versus-arrival time line, one of which is shown in
Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a. This is produced by averaging all
$t_A$ measurements for a given slope $\Delta t_{BA}$. That is, the
values along vertical slices of the 2D density plot in
Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a are averaged to produce the
y-coordinates of the slope-versus-arrival time line shown in black. By
interpolating new $\Delta t_{BA}$ measurements on this curve and using
it like a lookup table, PNR corrections $C_A$ are found. These may be
subtracted off from $t_A$ producting
$\tilde{t_A} = t_A - C_A(\Delta t_{BA})$ where $\tilde{t_A}$ is a
constructed timing measurement that exhibits a symmetric arrival time
response function and shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} c.~

The data representation and calibration curve shown in
Fig.~\ref{fig:slope_correction} a may be constructed with $t_B$ on the
y-axis as well. Then the PNR corrections are applied the the $t_B$
measurements instead. However, the resulting histograms $\tilde{t_B}$
are virtual identical to $\tilde{t_A}$.

\hypertarget{cluster-analysis}{%
\subsection{Cluster Analysis}\label{cluster-analysis}}

\hypertarget{results}{%
\section{Results}\label{results}}

results here

{}

\hypertarget{synchronization-with-a-software-phase-locked-loop-pll}{%
\section{Synchronization with a Software Phase Locked Loop
(PLL)}\label{synchronization-with-a-software-phase-locked-loop-pll}}

\textbf{Todo} \emph{This will be the first place in the thesis that I
introduce the use of my software based phase locked loop (PLL). The
software PLL has been useful in several later projects. I will either
fully explain the PLL here, or I will only introduce and motivate it
here. And a full description will go in an appendix. } 1. For sending
many PPM symbols, I needed a synchronization clock that was (A) always
running, and (B) extremely low jitter. 2. Sending an output from the AWG
to the Swabian timetagger in another room resulted in a less-than-ideal
clock source. The signal was low amplitude, and triggering on it's
rising edge did not make for a very low jitter clock signal. 3. I had
some sense that that should be a way of `averaging' past clock cycles in
some way to cancel jitter. After some research and failed tests toward
developing my own averaging method, I learned a software based Phase
Locked Loop is just what I needed. 4. Initial version was adapted from a
Matlab code on the Phase Locked Loop wikipedia page. That code was
written for a sampled sign wave, but I adapted to take in just one data
point per period. For our non-coherent and time-resolved types of
measurements with SNSPDs, we typically only have clocks of this type.
Where the clock is expressed by some type of optical or RF pulse that
arrives on a regular period. 5. More recently Rahaf Youssef and I have
worked on updating our software PLL tools so that its easier to
understand and reason about, and easier to lock to a given signal.

\hypertarget{outlook-towards-high-rate-pnr-and-time-walk-correction}{%
\section{Outlook: Towards High Rate PNR and Time Walk
Correction}\label{outlook-towards-high-rate-pnr-and-time-walk-correction}}

\hypertarget{high-rate-entanglement-generation}{%
\chapter{High Rate Entanglement
Generation}\label{high-rate-entanglement-generation}}

A version of this chapter is currently under review. A preprint is
released as Chure, G, Kaczmarek, Z. A., and Phillips, R. Physiological
adaptability and parametric versatility in a simple genetic circuit.
bioRxiv 2019. DOI: 10.1101/2019.12.19.878462. G.C. and R.P. designed
experiments and developed theoretical models. G.C. and Z.A.K. collected
and analyzed data. G.C. and R.P. wrote the paper.

\hypertarget{abstract-3}{%
\section{Abstract}\label{abstract-3}}

Entanglement distribution based on time-bins is an attractive option for
emerging quantum networks. We demonstrate a 4 GHz repetition rate source
of photon pairs entangled across early and late time bins separated by
80 ps. Simultaneous high rates and high fidelities are achieved through
multiplexing the Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC) output
into 8 energy-time entangled channel pairs. We demonstrate entanglement
fidelities as high as 99.76\%, total entanglement rates up to 0.5
Mbits/s, and predict a straightforward path towards achieving up to
{\color{darkred} XXX} Mbit/s. Finally, we resolve the density matrices
of individual channels and express distillable entanglement rates in
ebit/s, thereby quantifying the tradeoff between fidelity and
coincidence rates that contributes to useful entanglement distribution.
This source is a fundamental building block for high rate
entanglement-based quantum key distribution systems or advanced quantum
networks.

\hypertarget{introduction-3}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction-3}}

~~~~~

Entangled photons play a vital role in the development of quantum
information processing and communication systems. The ability to
generate entangled photon pairs at a high rate is essential for
establishing reliable and scalable quantum networks, as well as for
implementing entanglement-based quantum key distribution (QKD) systems.
Unlike QKD systems that rely on attenuated lasers, entanglement
distribution systems may fulfill the objectives of QKD while also
serving as the foundation for advanced quantum networks that heavily
rely on entanglement as a fundamental resource.

Entanglement-distribution and entanglement-based QKD systems have been
demonstrated with impressive performance across a number of metrics.
These include 40 Kbps data rates in a QKD system deployed over 50 km of
fiber \autocite{Pelet2022}, as well as multiple polarization entangled
sources that leverage spectral multiplexing. These polarization sources
include a demonstration of 181 kebits/s across 150 ITU channel pairs,
and a high-power source potentially capable of gigabit rates with many
added channels and detectors
\autocite{Alshowkan2022,Neumann2022Entanglement}. Multiple works have
highlighted the need to leverage high total brightness, spectral
brightness, collection efficiency, and high visibility from pair
generating non-linear crystals in order to realize practical high-rate
entanglement distribution \autocite{Neumann2022Entanglement}.

Also, with suitable equipment, robust time-bin modulation is possible
over free space links with turbulence \autocite{Jin2019}. Therefore, the
possibility of simplified fiber-free space interconnects and larger
quantum networks based on a shared time-bin protocol motivates
development of improved time-bin sources.

We employ a 4.0 GHz mode locked laser source with 80-ps delay
interferometers to realize a high-rate source. Wavelength multiplexing
is used for reading out energy-time entangled photon pairs, thereby
realizing multiple high fidelity channels pairings which together sum to
a high coincidence rate. Each of the 8 pairs can be considered an
independent carrier of photonic entanglement \autocite{Wengerowsky2018}
and therefore the system as a whole is applicable to flex-grid
architectures through the use of wavelength selective switching
\autocite{Appas2021,Alshowkan22Switching}. However, we focus here on
maximizing the rate between two receiving stations, Alice and Bob
(Fig.~\ref{fig:system} a). Each station is equipped with DWDMs that
receive multiplexed channels, and may include multiple detectors to read
out the full rate.

\hypertarget{fig:system}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_04/figs_04/sys_drawing_light.pdf}
\caption[{System Drawing \& DWDM Channels.}]{\textbf{System Drawing \&
DWDM Channels} a) Pulses from a 1539.47 nm mode locked laser (Pritel
UOC) are doubled by an 80 ps delay interferometer before up-conversion
and amplification in a SHG \& EDFA module (Pritel). A short PM fiber
from the SHG connects to the SPDC where photon pairs are created. The
CWDM module separates the SPDC spectrum into multiple
$\sim\!\!13~\mathrm{nm}$ wide bands spaced by 20 nm. The 1530 and 1550
nm bands are sent to the Bob and Alice stations respectively. The
readout interferometers have the same time delay as the source
interferometer. Polarization controllers are used to maximize the
coincidence rates, as the detection efficiencies of the SNSPDs is
polarization sensitive $\pm20\%$. Entanglement fidelity is unaffected by
readout polarization. The two SNSPDs are connected to each channel pair
in succession to resolve full system performance. b) ITU channels
involved with the experiment. Pairs of channels highlighted with the
same color obey the SPDC \& pump energy matching condition, and can be
directly read out through DWDM channel outputs. To asses the full 16
channels (27-42) of Alice's DWDM multiplexer, Bob's 8-channel DWDM is
switched out for a tunable narroband filter.}
\label{fig:system}
\end{figure}
}

We quantify per-channel brightness and fidelity as a function of pump
power, as well as collection efficiencies, coincidence rates across 8
channel pairs, and expected performance of a partially realized
16-channel pair configuration. We show that the 8 channel system
achieves low-power fidelities that average to 99.76\%. At a higher
power, we demonstrate a total coincidence rate of 0.51 MHz with
fidelities that average to 99.22\%. Through quantum state tomography we
bound the distillable entanglement rate of the system to between 80\%
and 95\% of the high-power coincidence rate (0.41 - 0.48 Mebits/s).

Quantifying a source's spectral mode purity is important for gauging its
utility in advanced quantum networks that rely on 2-photon interference
measurements like Bell State Measurements.

With Schmidt decomposition we quantify the modal purity of single DWDM
channel pairs and derive the inverse Shmidt number which serves as an
estimate for two-photon HOM visibility between two such sources.
Ultimately, we demonstrate that an entanglement generation source of
this design makes for a robust and powerful building block for future
high rate quantum networks.

\hypertarget{system}{%
\section{System}\label{system}}

Figure \href{./section_03_introduction.md\#fig:system}{system} shows the
experiment setup. Pulses from a 4 GHz mode locked laser (Pritel UOC)
with a center wavelength at 1539.47 nm are sent through an 80 ps delay
interferometer (Optoplex). This generates the early/late basis, which is
subsequently unconverted by a second harmonic generation (SHG) module
(Pritel) and down converted into entangled photon pairs by a type-0
spontaneous parametric down conversion crystal (Covesion). The
up-converted pulses at 769 nm have a FWHM bandwidth of 243 GHz (0.48
nm), which along with the phase matching condition of the SPDC
waveguide, defines a wide Joint Spectral Intensity (JSI) function.

The entangled pairs, which are separated by a coarse wavelength division
multiplexer (CWDM), are of the form
$|\psi\rangle=\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}\left(|1\rangle_{s}|1\rangle_{i}+e^{i \phi}|2\rangle_{s}|2\rangle_{i}\right)$.
Entangled idler and signal photons are sent to the receiving stations
labeled Alice and Bob. One readout interferometer at each station
projects all spectral bands into a composite time-phase basis. From
here, dense wavelength division multiplexers (DWDM) divide up the
energy-time entangled photon pairs into spectral channels.

The outputs of the DWDMS are sent to differential niobium nitride (NbN)
superconducting nanowire single photon detectors (SNSPDs)
\autocite{Colangelo2023} with efficiencies of \textcolor{red}{XX} and
\textcolor{red}{XX}. These measure the arrival time of photons with
respect to a clock signal derived from the mode locked laser. We use two
SNSPDs for this demonstration, but a full 8-channel implementation of
this system requires 16 detectors operating in parallel at both Alice
and Bob. To read out both outputs of both interferometers, 4 detectors
per channel are required.

\hypertarget{results-1}{%
\section{Results}\label{results-1}}

The JSI is measured in Fig. Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} a by recording
coincidence rates for different ITU channel pairings. For a given idler
photon wavelength, the spectrum of corresponding signal photons spans
several ITU channels. Pairs along the main diagonal are optimized for
maximum coincidence rates, and are therefore used for all remaining
measurements. In \href{./section_03_introduction.md\#fig:system}{system}
c, these pairs are highlighted with matching colors.

\hypertarget{fig:jsi}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_04/figs_04/jsi_figure_light.pdf}
\caption[{Channel JSI and Histogram.}]{\textbf{Channel JSI and
Histogram} a) The singles rates $S_A$ and $S_B$ (grey bars), coupling
efficiencies (purple bars), and coincidence rates $C_{AB}$ (diagonal
boxes) for different DWDM channel pairings. The joint spectral intensity
envelop spans several 100 GHz channels. So the coincidence rates (KHz,
in black) are consistent with the efficiencies $\eta$ (purple bars) and
the singles rates (grey bars), they are scaled to represent two branches
of the total wavefunction. There are four branches in all, for the 4
pairs of 2 interferometer output ports that contribute coincidences. In
practice, one output each of Alice and Bob's interferometers is
measured, thereby capturing one branch. See supplemental for details of
the scaling method, and the fitting method used to solve for the
coupling efficiencies $\eta$. b) Coincidence rates for energy-matched
channel pairings. The light green bars match the main diagonal in (a).
Grey bars are measured with x16 DWDM at Alice and a tunable narroband
filter at Bob. Dashed bars predict the rates for a system with x16 DWDMs
at both Alice and Bob c) Histogram of photon arrival events with respect
to the 4 GHz clock. Dashed black and grey lines show the response
functions for coincidence events. Red bars represent guard regions where
coincidence events are ignored.}
\label{fig:jsi}
\end{figure}
}

Figure Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} a also shows coupling efficiencies $\eta$ for
each DWDM channel, $S_A$ is the singles rate at Alice, and $S_B$ is the
singles rate at Bob \autocite{Neumann2022Entanglement}. As only two of
the total four interferometer output ports are measured at once, certain
scalings are made to the singles and coincidence rates $C_{AB}$ to
reflect a readout configuration with well defined coupling efficiency
(see supplementary information).

Most tests were done with the 8 ITU 100 GHz channel pairings: Ch. 35-42
at Alice and Ch. 52-49 at Bob. In Fig. Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} b we
investigate rates across 16 pairs by using all 16 channels available on
the DWDM at Alice (24 - 34) and a tuneable narroband filter in place of
the DWDM at Bob. As the narroband filter has higher loss, the
coincidence rates are lower (grey bars in Fig. Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} b).
But the uniformity of coincidence rates across 16 channels implies the
use of 16-channel DWDMs at both Alice and Bob would roughly double the
total coincidence rate.

Signals from the SNSPDs are read out with a free running time tagger
(Swabian) and processed with custom software. In the resulting
histograms referenced from a shared clock (Fig Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} c),
three peaks are visible which are caused by the sequential delays of the
source and readout interferometers. Some intensity imbalance between
long and short paths is present in these interferometers, which explains
the asymmetry between early and late peaks in Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} c.~This
type of imbalance is expected to degrade entanglement fidelity only if
present in the source interferometer (see supplemenatry info).
Therefore, that with lowest imbalance was chosen for the source.

The coincidence rate across Alice and Bob's middle bins varies
sinusoidally with respect to the combined phase relationship source and
readout interferometers (see supplementary information)
\autocite{Inagaki2013}. In figure Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} c the coincidences
shown are for any combination of early, middle, or late bins. For
tomography and fidelity measurements, coincidences across specific bin
pairings are considered. Events within 10 ps width guard regions
centered at 80 and 160 ps (shaded red) are discarded for analysis of
coincidences between individual bins. This is done to maximize fidelity
in the presence of some minor overlap of the pulse response functions.

\hypertarget{fig:shg_scan}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_04/figs_04/shg_scan_light.pdf}
\caption[{Fidelity and Rates vs \(\boldsymbol \mu\).}]{\textbf{Fidelity
and Rates vs $\boldsymbol \mu$} a) Fidelity versus pump power. Error
bars arise from making multiple measurements of the center bin
coincidence rate over some integration time. These measurements span
small ranges of interferometer phase, as the extremum-finding algorithm
jitters the interferometer voltage. b) Bounded distillable entanglement
rate versus pump power. Multiple such measurements are made for all the
tomographic measurements. These are used to calculate standard
deviations for fidelity, log negativity, and coherent information. Error
bars for the log negativity and coherent information are smaller than
the line width shown. Rates shown assume readout of all 4 available
interferometer ports, based on data measured using one port each at
Alice and Bob.}
\label{fig:shg_scan}
\end{figure}
}

Due to the small size and athermal design of the interferomters, minimal
temporal phase drift was observed over multiple hours. Nevertheless,
software was used to `lock' the phase at a minimum or maximum with a
simple steepest-descent algorithm. This varied the phase by small
amounts over several minutes and adjusted phase to maintain an extremum.

Channels 35 and 59 were chosen for an analysis of entanglement fidelity
and rates versus pump power. Fidelity with respect to pump power or mean
entangled pair rate is shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:shg_scan} a. We define the
entanglement fidelity as $F = 100\%*(1 - \frac{C_{min}}{C_{max}})$ where
$C_{min}$ and $C_{max}$ are the minimum and maximum coincidence rates
with respect to interferometer phase observed across the middle bins. As
this coincidence rate depends on the total phase across all source and
readout interferometers, just one (Bob's) is actively controlled to scan
the full state space.

\hypertarget{fig:channel_data}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_04/figs_04/8ch_bar_graph_high_power_light.pdf}
\caption[{Fidelity and rates across 8 channel pairs.}]{\textbf{Fidelity
and rates across 8 channel pairs} a) Fidelity for the main 8 channel
pairs, measured at a high (5.17 Amps) and a low ( 1.2 Amps) SHG pump
power setting. Each power setting results in similar $\mu$ for all
channels: $\mu_{low}$ = 5.6e-5 $\pm$ 9e-6 and $\mu_{high}$ = 6.1e-3
$\pm$ 3e-4. b) Rate metrics for the 8 channel pairs at the same high and
low power settings. The range of possible values for distillable
entanglement rate is spanned by the yellow regions, bounded above by
log-negativity and below by coherent information. Rates shown assume
readout of all 4 available interferometer ports, based on data measured
using one port each at Alice and Bob}
\label{fig:channel_data}
\end{figure}
}

We quantify the rate of useful entanglement by supplying bounds for the
distillable entanglement rate $R_D$. Measured in ebits/s, $R_D$ is the
maximal asymptotic rate of Bell pair production per received state using
only local operations and classical communications. It is bounded above
by log negativity $R_N = RE_N$ and below by $R_I = R E_I$ where $R$ is
the raw coincidence rate \autocite{Alshowkan2022}. For each pump power
setting in Fig.~\ref{fig:shg_scan}, a series of tomographic measurements
is performed and density matrices calculated. $E_I$ and $E_N$ are
calculated from the density matrices as detailed in the supplementary
information.

Figure Fig.~\ref{fig:channel_data} shows fidelities, raw coincidence
rates, and bounded distillable entanglement rates for all 8 channel
pairings and 2 pump powers. The higher pump power is the highest
possible on our SHG \& EDFA module. Higher rates are readily achievable
by increasing the output power of this component, up to a point where
the high count rate on the SNSPDs induces higher jitter. However these
pulse pileup and time-walk effects can be mitigated with jitter
correction techniques \autocite{Mueller2023}.

\% \textbackslash textcolor\{blue\}\{ \% We perform a linear fit of the
entanglement fidelity data, $F = A + B\mu$, and obtain $A = XXX$,
$B=XXX$. We derive expressions for A and B in terms of the mean photon
number, interferometer transmittances, and interference visibilities
(see Supplemental).\}

Using the data in Fig. Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} a, we model the joint spectral
intensity function of the SPDC output as a product of pump envelope and
phase matching condition functions

$$|f(\omega_s, \omega_i)|^2 = |\psi_{\mathrm{ph}}\left(\omega_s, \omega_i\right)|^2 *|\psi_p\left(\omega_s, \omega_i\right)|^2$$

This construction depends on the wavelength (769.78 nm) and bandwidth
(243 GHz FWHM) of unconverted light out of the SHG, which was measured
with a spectrum analyzer. The transmission spectrums of the 100 GHz DWDM
channels was also modeled based on measured transmission data, in order
to define the integrations over the JSI that would match the coincidence
results in Fig. Fig.~\ref{fig:jsi} a (details in supplemental).

We calculate the Schmidt decomposition of the JSI bipartite spectrum
transmitted through pairs of DWDM filters at Alice and Bob, and derive
an inverse Schmidt number of $1/K = 0.87$. This value quantifies the
spectral purity of the entangled photon source, and predicts the
visibility of a two-source HOM (Hong-Ou-Mandel) interferogram. If 50 GHz
ITU channels are used instead, the model predicts $1/K = 0.96$.

\appendix

\hypertarget{aph-138-homework-assignment}{%
\chapter{Aph 138 Homework
Assignment}\label{aph-138-homework-assignment}}

In March of 2022, Matthew Shaw was a guest lecturer for the Quantum
Hardware and Techniques course (APh/Ph 138b). The following is a
homework assignment I wrote to accompany his series of lectures.

The first problem is inspired by the low dark count rate
publication\textasciitilde{}\autocite{Mueller:21}. It has the student
build a simple model for a dark count rate transmitted through a series
of filters. Finally, it leads the student to consider an ultimate
tradeoff between dark count rate and coupling efficiency to wide
bandwidth optical signals. A filtering system that only transmits a very
narroband signal will not be able to detect ultra-short optical signals
with high efficiency or temporal resolution.

The second problem explores a potential use case of a photon number
resolving SNSPD. It closely follows logic presented in an Andreas Christ
and Christine Silberhorn paper\textasciitilde{}\autocite{Andreas:12}. I
studied this paper earlier in my PhD, when I considered developing a
multiplexed single photon source. It turned out that project was overly
ambitious, but future PhD students might consider approaching it again.

\textcolor{midnightblue}{Contact
\href{mailto:andrewstermueller@gmail.com}{Andrew Mueller} with any
questions about the homework or solution manual. The solutions to some
sections specify finer-grained point values when there are multiple
answers per section. As the grader, feel free to use these or not. }

\hypertarget{free-space-coupling-with-low-dark-counts-50-points}{%
\subsection{1. Free space coupling with low dark counts (50
points)}\label{free-space-coupling-with-low-dark-counts-50-points}}

An experimental apparatus emits a collimated beam of $1550~\mathrm{nm}$
photons with gaussian beam waist $w_0 = 3~\mathrm{mm}$. You wish to
focus the beam onto an SNSPD directly through a window in a cryostat.

\hypertarget{fig:cryostat_concept}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/fig1b_light.pdf}
\caption[{Cryostat optical coupling}]{\textbf{Cryostat free space
coupling options.}}
\label{fig:cryostat_concept}
\end{figure}
}

As we will see later on, a set of filters will be needed between the
detector and the window to minimize dark counts. In practice, the set of
filters can be quite thick. Say a $f = 100~\mathrm{mm}$ lens is used
right outside the cryostat to focus the beam onto the detector though a
set of filters (Fig.~\ref{fig:cryostat_concept} a). The long focal
length makes room for a few inches of filters between the external lens
and focused spot.

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  (4 pts) If the detector has a circular active area with radius
  $5~\mathrm{\upmu m}$, what ratio of power in the beam can it collect?
  Assume the detector has unity efficiency across all angles of
  incidence with respect to the surface normal.

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  \textbf{Answer:}

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  The divergence angle of the guassian beam:
  $\theta = \tan^{-1}({\frac{3}{100}})$.

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ The formula for divergence angle in terms of
  waist $w_0$: $\theta = \frac{\lambda}{\pi w_0}$ }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Combining and plugging in, the waist radius
  at focus is
  $\frac{1550~\mathrm{nm}}{\pi \tan^{-1}(\frac{3}{100})} \approx 16.5~ \mathrm{\upmu m}$
  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ The formula for power inside an aperture at
  $w(z)$ for a guassian beam:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(r, z)=P_{0}\left[1-e^{-2 r^{2} / w^{2}(z)}\right]$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{We are interested in the ratio of power
  collected at $w(z=0) = w_0$ which may be expressed as:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(r, z=0)=1-e^{-2 r^{2} / w_0^{2}}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Plugging in: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(r, z=0)=1-e^{-2(5^{2}) / 16.5^{2}} \approx  \boxed{0.17} $$

  }
\item
  (4 pts) A faster lens mounted much closer to the detector inside the
  cryostat focuses to a smaller waist. Consider an $f = 18~\mathrm{mm}$
  lens with the detector at the focal length
  (Fig.~\ref{fig:cryostat_concept} b). Verify more than 99\% of the
  collimated light will be focused onto the active area of the detector.

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ The waist radius at focus is
  $\frac{1550~\mathrm{nm}}{\pi \tan^{-1}(\frac{3}{18})} \approx 2.98~\mathrm{\upmu m}$
  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Ratio of power within the
  $10~\mathrm{\upmu m}$ radius active area: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(r, z=0)=1-e^{-2(5^{2}) / 2.98^{2}} \approx \boxed{0.996} $$

  }

  Without filtering, the mid-infrared photons coupled to the detector
  from the room temperature laboratory are a dominant source of dark
  counts. Think of the environment outside the window as an isotropic
  blackbody emitter. Consider 3 cases, where the shaded red regions
  illustrate the light field of thermal radiation that could couple to
  the detector:

  \hypertarget{fig:coupling_options}{%
  \begin{figure}
  \centering
  \includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/fig2b_light.pdf}
  \caption[{Cryostat coupling options}]{\textbf{Three Coupling Options}}
  \label{fig:coupling_options}
  \end{figure}
  }

  \begin{enumerate}
  \def\labelenumii{\roman{enumii})}
  \tightlist
  \item
    There is no lens; the detector is distance $l$ inside the cryostat,
    and the first window with diameter $d$ defines an entrance pupil.
  \item
    Same as (i), but a lens with focal length $l$ is placed right
    outside the first window. The detector is at the focal point.
  \item
    Same as (ii) but the lens is placed inside the cryostat with the
    detector still at the focal length. Equivalent to
    Fig.~\ref{fig:cryostat_concept} b above.
  \end{enumerate}
\item
  (6 pts) Does (ii) couple more, less, or equal dark counts to the
  detector than (i)? What about case (iii)? Why? No calculations should
  be needed. (Hint: Consider the units of radiance, which characterizes
  a black body emitter. Etendue or beam parameter product may be useful
  concepts to consider)

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} } \textcolor{midnightblue}{
  The three cases couple the same amount of light to the detector. (ii)
  couples the same amount of power as (i) because a blackbody source
  can't be focused to higher intensity with a lens. The solid angle
  subtended by the entrance pupil as seen by the detector is the same in
  all cases. The detector area stays the same as well so the etendue is
  conserved across all three cases. This implies the same radiant power
  is coupled. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ 3 points for saying all situations couple
  the same rate; 3 points for some explanation. }
\item
  (9 pts) Using Planck's law with laboratory temperature $T$ and the
  geometry of case (i) above, write an expression for spectral radiant
  flux (photons per unit wavelength) on the active area of a detector
  with radius $r$.

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The expression is a product of several
  factors:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\text{Flux}[\lambda] = P \Omega D_{area} B_{\lambda}(\lambda, T)$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Where $P = \frac{\lambda}{hc}$ is the number
  of photons per unit energy, $\Omega$ is the solid angle of blackbody
  radiation as seen by the detector, $D_{area} = \pi r^2$ is the area of
  the detector, and $B_{\lambda}$ is Planck's law. }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Planck's law:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$B_{\lambda}(\lambda, T)=\frac{2 h c^{2}}{\lambda^{5}} \frac{1}{e^{h c /\left(\lambda k_{\mathrm{B}} T\right)}-1}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ $\Omega = \pi \sin{\theta^2}$, where
  $\theta = \tan^{-1}(\frac{(d/2)}{l})$ is the half angle of the field
  of view of blackbody radiation as seen by the detector. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The full expression: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\text{Flux}[\lambda] = \frac{\lambda \pi^2 r^2 \sin{\theta^2}}{hc} \frac{2 h c^{2}}{\lambda^{5}} \frac{1}{e^{h c /\left(\lambda k_{\mathrm{B}} T\right)}-1}, \,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\theta = \tan^{-1}(\frac{(d/2)}{l})$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Since the expression asked for can be
  written many ways, just verify the student has taken into account all
  the terms in equation (1) above, and has the correct expressions for}
  \textcolor{darkred}{$\Omega$ (3 pts), $\theta$ (3 pts), and P (3
  pts).}
\item
  (6 pts) Consider the configuration in Fig. 1b). The detector has an
  internal quantum efficiency approximated by:

  $$\eta(\lambda) = \frac{1}{2}(1 - \text{erf}[\lambda - 3~\mathrm{\upmu m}]) $$

  $\lambda$ is measured in $\mathrm{\upmu m}$ and $\text{erf}()$ is the
  error function. Using your conclusions from (1.3) and expression from
  (1.4), write a formula $N_{photons}[\lambda]$ for the number of
  detectable dark counts with respect to $\lambda$, then numerically
  integrate it to find the dark count rate with no filtering. The
  laboratory temperature $T$ is 293 K, lens focal length $l$ is
  $18~\text{mm}$, detector radius $r$ is $5~\mathrm{\upmu m}$, and the
  diameter $d$ of all optics is 1 inch. The maximum count rate of this
  SNSPD is 10 MHz. Is the detector usable or overexposed?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Use the expression from (1.4) and multiply it
  by the quantum efficiency function $\eta(\lambda)$ }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$N_{photons}[\lambda] = P \Omega D_{area} \eta(\lambda) B_{\lambda}(\lambda, T=293)$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Here is the function expressed in mathmatica
  and the solution to the integral: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/mathematica_2.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Dark count rate
  $\approx \boxed{110 \,\text{MCounts/s}}$ }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The rate of dark counts exceeds the usual
  maximum count rate, the detector is not usable. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{3 pts. for similar dark count rate (+/- 20\%)
  , 3 pts. for saying the detector is not usable.}
\item
  (6 pts) A set of shortpass filters can remove the bulk of blackbody
  radiation. A shortpass filter can be roughly modeled with the formula:

  $$F(\lambda, E_t) = \frac{1}{E_t}[(E_t - 1)H(\lambda_c - \lambda) + 1]$$

  Where H is the Heaviside step function, $\lambda_c$ is the cutoff
  wavelength of the filter, and $E_t$ is the extinction ratio of the
  filter. Use this with $N_{photons}[\lambda]$ from (d). How many
  filters with $\lambda_c = 1560~\text{nm}$ and $E_t = 30~\text{dB}$ are
  necessary to suppress the spectral region of detectable dark counts
  longer than 1560 nm so that it is not the dominant source of dark
  counts?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{$\boxed{\text{3 filters}}$ are needed to make
  the wavelength band shorter than 156 nm the dominant source of
  counts.} \textcolor{darkred}{3 pts. for this answer}

  \textcolor{darkred}{3 pts for evidence:}
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Students might integrate the detectable dark
  count spectrum with different numbers of filters and comparing the
  results. The computations below show the addition of a fourth filter
  has a negligible effect on the dark count rate. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Students may instead give a more qualitative
  answer, for example with a graph of the filtered spectrums, that shows
  the relative suppression of the region longer than 1560 nm. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/filter_integrate_4.PNG}}
\item
  (7 pts) If a narrow band filter is also inserted with center
  wavelength $1550~\text{nm}$ and spectral width below $1-2~nm$, then
  dark count rate can be approximated as just
  $N_{photons}[\lambda = 1550~\text{nm}]$ times the filter width. Show
  for this wavelength range you can simplify dark count rate further to
  a simple exponential function. If the laboratory air conditioner
  breaks, raising the lab temperature from 293 K to 300 K, how much
  higher is the dark count rate?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The expression for $N_{photons}[\lambda]$
  from part (1.4) can be simplified and evaluated at 1550 nm, then
  multiplied by the filter width in nanometers. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
   N_{photons}[\lambda] &= P \Omega D_{area} \eta(\lambda) B_{\lambda}(\lambda) \\
   N_{filter} &= N_{photons}[\lambda = 1550~\text{nm}]\Delta \lambda
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{This code shows integrating the spectrum and
  just multiplying $N_{photons}$ times the filter width produce very
  similar results (for a 1 nm filter):}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/nphoton_approx.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Evaluating the $N_{photon}$ function at
  $\lambda = 1550~text{nm}$ shows the $-1$ term is small relative to the
  exponential term:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/small_relative_to_exponential.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Therefore the filter transmission
  approximation is:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\boxed{N_{filter} \approx 9.26\mathrm{e}21 \Delta\lambda e^{-9290/T} (\frac{\text{photons}}{\text{s*meter}})}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{or equivalently: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\boxed{N_{filter} \approx 9.26\mathrm{e}12 \Delta\lambda e^{-9290/T} (\frac{\text{photons}}{\text{s*nm}})}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{and the dark count rate in the 300 K room is
  roughly double the rate in the 293 K room: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/filter_with_temp.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{4 pts for a similar equation, 3 pts for
  finding the dark count rate roughly doubles. }

  A quantum communication experiment requires time-tagging photons with
  respect to a 50 GHz clock with 95\% fidelity. That is, 95\% of the
  timing measurements of detected photons emitted at the same time with
  respect to a clock fall within a 20 ps bin. Say the detector and
  readout electronics have a combined jitter of 10 ps FWHM, and a mode
  locked laser is used for the experiment that generates
  transform-limited Gaussian pulses. You tune it's temporal length to a
  value for which the total timing uncertainty of time-tagged photons
  --- including system jitter and pulse temporal length --- matches the
  95 \% fidelity at 50 GHz requirement. Assume detector jitter has a
  Gaussian shape as well.
\item
  (8 pts) Find the spectral width of a filter that would transmit 95\%
  of the photons from the mode locked laser. What is the dark count rate
  with this filter, using the expression from (1.7) and T = 293 K?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{For transform limited guassian pulses, the
  product of temporal and spectral width at a FWHM level is
  \href{https://www.lasercalculator.com/transform-limited-pulse-calculator/}{about
  0.441}. There's a derivation of this
  \href{https://www.physicsforums.com/threads/time-bandwidth-product-ideal-mode-locking.171404/post-1339948}{here},
  but students don't need to show it. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$T B P_{\text {Gaussian }}=\frac{2 \log 2}{\pi} \approx 0.441$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Since this uses the FWHM level, all the 95\%
  metrics need to be converted. About 95\% of the area under a guassian
  falls within $\pm 2 \sigma$. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ Bound on total system timing uncertainty:
  $20~\text{ps}_{95\%} = (20/4)*2.35 = 11.75~\text{ps}_{FWHM}$ }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ The jitter of the detection system and the
  temporal width of the laser pulse $\Delta t$ should add in quadrature
  to match the bound: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$ 11.75~\text{ps}_{FWHM} = \sqrt{ \Delta t^2 + (10~\text{ps})^2}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
   0.441 = \Delta t \Delta \nu \\
   \Delta \nu = 71~\text{GHz} \\
   \Delta \lambda = \frac{\lambda^2 \Delta \nu}{c} = 0.57~\text{nm} \\
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ $0.57~\text{nm}$ is the spectral width of
  the laser pulse at the FWHM level. If this pulse passes through a
  tophat filter with width equal to the 95\% level of the laser pulse,
  then 95\% will be transmitted. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Filter width: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\Delta \lambda_{95\%} = \frac{4 \Delta \lambda}{2.35} \approx \boxed{1~\text{nm}} $$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Dark count rate is easy to find using the
  expression from the previous section: }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\boxed{N_{filter} \approx 9.26e12 (1~\text{nm}) e^{-9290/T} (\frac{\text{photons}}{\text{s*nm}})} \approx 0.15~\text{photons/s} $$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{3 points for writing and solving the equation
  that matches the jitter bound to the quadrature sum }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{5 points for correct filter width and dark
  count rate}
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{spdc-coupling-and-single-photon-sources-50-points}{%
\subsection{2. SPDC Coupling and Single Photon Sources (50
points)}\label{spdc-coupling-and-single-photon-sources-50-points}}

A Spontaneous Parametric Down Conversion (SPDC) crystal is known to
generate a twin beam squeezed state of the form:

$$|\psi\rangle= \sqrt{1 - \gamma^2} \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{n}\left|n_{s}, n_{i}\right\rangle $$

Where $n_s$ and $n_i$ are the number of photons corresponding to the
signal and idler parts of the wavefunction. Consider Fig.~\ref{fig:hsps}
a, where the crystal is pumped with a pulsed laser, and the the signal
and idler components that emerge are separated either by polarization or
frequency. The idler arm is sent to an SNSPD. This configuration can be
used as a heralded single photon source (HSPS). A click on the detector
on the idler arm `heralds' a non-vacuum state in the signal arm. High
fidelity and probability single photon sources are very useful for
various quantum optics experiments and technologies, including linear
optical quantum computing.

\hypertarget{fig:hsps}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/hsps_light.pdf}
\caption[{Heralded single photon source designs}]{\textbf{Heralded
single photon sources}}
\label{fig:hsps}
\end{figure}
}

Most SNSPDs are \emph{binary}-type single photon detectors, meaning they
differentiate between zero and one or more photons arriving in a given
light pulse. A positive operator value measure (POVM) quantifies how a
`click' from a binary SPD updates our knowledge of the incident state:

$$\hat{\Pi}_{\text {binary}} = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty}\left[1-(1-\eta)^{n}\right]|n\rangle\langle n|$$

Where $\eta$ is the coupling efficiency between the state of interest
and the detector.

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  (6 pts) Find the expectation value of $\hat{\Pi}_{\text {binary}}$
  given the SPDC state above. This is the probability
  $p_{binary}\left(\gamma, \eta\right)$ of getting a binary detector
  click on the idler arm. For $\gamma << 1$, what is $p_{binary}$ up to
  lowest order in $\gamma$, and what fock state of the signal arm is the
  source of this dominant term?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
   \langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {binary}} | \psi \rangle &= (1- \gamma^2) \sum_{\tilde{n}=0}^{\infty} \langle \tilde{n}_s \tilde{n}_i | \gamma^{\tilde{n}} \sum_{n=0}^{\infty}[1 - (1-\eta)^{n}] \gamma^n | n_s n_i \rangle \\
   \langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {binary}} | \psi \rangle &= p_{binary}(\gamma, \eta) =  \boxed{(1-\gamma^2) \sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n_s} [1 - (1 - \eta)^{n_s}]}
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{For
  $\gamma << 1, ~~ p \sim (1 - \gamma^2)[\cancel{\gamma^0[1 - (1 - \eta)^0]} + \gamma^{2}\eta ] \sim (1 - \gamma^2)\gamma^{2}\eta$
  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ To lowest order in $\gamma$,
  $p \sim \gamma^{2}\eta$. The single photon fock state dominates for
  $\gamma << 1$. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ 3 pts for correct
  $p_{binary}(\gamma, \eta)$; 3 pts for saying the leading term is from
  single photons }
\item
  (6 pts) A general form for the density matrix of the signal mode given
  a herald event is:

  $$\rho_{s}\left(\gamma, \eta\right)=\frac{\operatorname{Tr}_{i}\left(\hat{\Pi}|\psi\rangle\langle\psi|\right)}{\left\langle\psi\left|\hat{\Pi}\right| \psi\right\rangle}$$

  Write down the $|1\rangle\langle1|$ term of this matrix, and simplify
  any infinite sums. This is the single photon fidelity
  $F_{binary}(\gamma, \eta)$. Why does $F_{binary}$ approach zero for
  $\gamma$ approaching 1? What types of states is the SPDC generating in
  this limit?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
   \rho_s(\gamma,\eta) &= \frac{\operatorname{Tr}_i[\cancel{(1 - \gamma^2)}\Sigma_{n=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n}[1 - (1 - \eta)^{n} ]| n \rangle \langle n | n_s n_i \rangle \langle n_s n_i |]}
   {\cancel{(1-\gamma^2)} \sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n_s} [1 - (1 - \eta)^{n_s}]}\\
   |1_s \rangle \langle 1_s | &= \frac{\gamma^2[1 - (1 - \eta)]}{\sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n_s} [1 - (1 - \eta)^{n_s}]} = \frac{\gamma^2 \eta}{\sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n_s} [1 - (1 - \eta)^{n_s}]}\\
   |1_s \rangle \langle 1_s | &= \frac{\gamma^2 \eta}{\sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty}(\gamma^{2n_s} - [\gamma^2 (1 - \eta)]^{n_s})}\\
   &= \frac{\gamma^2 \eta}{\frac{1}{1 - \gamma^2} - \frac{1}{1 - \gamma^2(1 - \eta)}}\\
   &= \frac{\gamma^2 \eta (1 - \gamma^2)}{1 - \frac{1 - \gamma^2}{1 - \gamma^2(1 - \eta)}}\\
   &= \frac{\cancel{\gamma^2 \eta} (1 - \gamma^2) (1 - \gamma^2 (1 - \eta))}{\cancel{1 - \gamma^2 (1 - \eta) - 1 + \gamma^2}} \\
   F_{binary}(\gamma, \eta) &= \boxed{(1 - \gamma^2)(1 - \gamma^2(1 - \eta))}
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{As $\gamma$ approaches 1, the denominator in
  the original expression for $\rho_s(\gamma,\eta)$ approaches infinity
  while the numerator approaches $\eta$. In this limit, the SPDC is
  generating predominantly multi-photon states. For $\gamma$ approaching
  1, the probability of the generated state being a single photon state
  goes to zero. Because the binary POVM was used, multi-photon states
  are `included' in $\rho_s(\gamma,\eta)$. For $\rho_s$ from the PNR
  POVM shown below, multi-photon states will be included to a much
  lesser extent, depending on the value for $\eta$.}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{3 pts for correct $F_{binary}(\gamma, \eta)$;
  3 pts for similar explanation}

  An HSPS with high single photon fidelity and probability is most
  useful, but you see these metrics are maximized for opposite limits of
  $\gamma$. One approach to achieving high probability and fidelity
  simultaneously is to link multiple SPDC sources and heralding
  detectors as shown in Fig.~\ref{fig:hsps} b. A click from the detector
  $j$ triggers the switch to move to position $j$ and let the heralded
  state pass through. This way, $\gamma$ for each source can be kept low
  to maximize fidelity, while heralding probability increases with the
  number of sources.
\item
  (6 pts) If such a multiplexing setup is engineered to have 98\% single
  photon fidelity from each source and 98\% heralding probability
  overall, how many sources and binary SNSPDs are needed? Use an idler
  arm efficiency $\eta$ of 80\%.

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The fist step is to determine the pump power
  $\gamma$ for which fideltiy is 98\%. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$0.98 = F_{binary}(\gamma, \eta) = (1 - \gamma^2)(1 - \gamma^2(1 - \eta)\,\,\,\,\,\,\,\, \eta = 0.8$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ A numerical solution is fine. We're
  interested in the positive solution less than one:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/Ftsolve.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Like in introductory statistics problems, its
  helpful to think about the negative case: Given N sources with herald
  probability $p$, the probability of zero sources heralding is:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(\text{no herald}|N) = (1 - p_{binary}\left(\gamma, \eta\right))^N$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Then the probability of at least one herald
  is 1 minus the previous expression:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$P(\text{at least one herald}|N) = 1 - (1 - p_{binary}\left(\gamma, \eta\right))^N$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/mux_binary.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{About $\boxed{N = 290}$ sources are needed.}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{3 pts for correct form of the multiplexing
  expression $P(\text{at least one herald}|N)$; 3 pts for similar number
  of sources $N$}
\end{enumerate}

A photon number resolving (PNR) SNSPD is able to discriminate the number
of photons in a light pulse*. By heralding the idler mode with a PNR
SNSPD, the generation of multi-photon signal pulses can be identified
and discarded. There's a POVM for an ideal PNR single photon detector,
where $i$ is the number of photons detected**:

$$\hat{\Pi}_{PNR}(i)=\sum_{n=i}^{\infty}\binom{n}{i}(1-\eta)^{n-i} \eta^{i}|n\rangle\langle n|$$

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\setcounter{enumi}{3}
\item
  (12 pts) Derive a herald probability $p_{PNR}$ and fidelity $F_{PNR}$
  for the PNR POVM, following the steps in the previous sections with
  $i$ set to 1. You can use symbolic math tools to simplify them if you
  wish. The probability of successfully heralding states in the signal
  arm $p_{PNR}$ should now approach zero for $\gamma$ near one. Why is
  this?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{The POVM for one photon detected:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\hat{\Pi}_{PNR}(1)=\sum_{n=1}^{\infty}n(1-\eta)^{n-1} \eta|n\rangle\langle n|$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{First, derive the probability of getting a
  single photon detection from the PNR detector:
  $p_{PNR}(\gamma, \eta)$:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
       p_{PNR}(\gamma, \eta) =\langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {PNR}} | \psi \rangle &= (1- \gamma^2) \sum_{\tilde{n}=0}^{\infty} \langle \tilde{n}_s \tilde{n}_i | \gamma^{\tilde{n}} \sum_{n=1}^{\infty}n(1-\eta)^{n-1} \eta|n\rangle\langle n| | n_s n_i \rangle \\
       \langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {PNR}} | \psi \rangle &= p_{PNR}\left(\gamma, \eta\right) =  \boxed{(1-\gamma^2) \sum_{n_s=0}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n_s} n_s(1-\eta)^{n_s-1}}\\
       p_{PNR}\left(\gamma, \eta\right) &=  \boxed{\frac{\gamma ^2 (1 - \gamma ^2) \eta }{(\gamma ^2 (\eta -1)+1)^2}}
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Where either of the boxed answers are
  acceptable, and the last line was found using mathematica:}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/simplify_ppnr.PNG}}

  \textcolor{darkred}{4 pts for $p_{PNR}\left(\gamma, \eta\right)$}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{Second, derive the single photon fidelity,
  staring with the density matrix for the signal photon given a PNR
  herald event. Using (15) above for
  $\langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {PNR}} | \psi \rangle$ in the denominator
  helps simplify it significantly. }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{

  $$\begin{aligned}
       \rho_s(\gamma,\eta) &= \frac{\operatorname{Tr}_i[\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \gamma^{2n}n(1-\eta)^{n-1} \eta|n\rangle\langle n|n_s n_i \rangle \langle n_s n_i |]}
           {\langle \psi | \Pi_{\text {PNR}} | \psi \rangle}\\
           |1_s \rangle \langle 1_s | &= \frac{\cancel{(1 - \gamma^2)}(\gamma ^2 (\eta -1)+1)^2 \cancel{\gamma^2 \eta}}{\cancel{\gamma^2 \eta} \cancel{(1 - \gamma ^2)} }\\
           F_{PNR}(\gamma, \eta) &= \boxed{(\gamma ^2 (\eta -1)+1)^2}
   \end{aligned}$$

  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{4 pts for $F_{PNR}(\gamma, \eta)$}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{For $\gamma$ near one, the SPDC is under
  strong pump power and is generating predominantly multi-pair states. A
  vanishing fraction of those states are single photon states that the
  PNR detector is able to distinguish and single-photon. Therefore, the
  PNR detector is signaling the generation of multi-pair states most of
  the time which should be discarded and do not contribute to $p_{PNR}$.
  For high efficiency $\eta$, only the vanishing single-pair creation
  rate contributes predominantly to $p_{PNR}$.}

  \textcolor{darkred}{4 pts for similar explanation}
\item
  (12 pts) Make a parametric plot for $0<\gamma<1$ with $F_{PNR}$ on the
  x-axis and $p_{PNR}$ on the y-axis. Plot the curve for a few different
  values of idler arm efficiency $0<\eta<1$. All curves should reach the
  same maximum herald probability. What is it?

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/PLT.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ The the herald probability regardless of
  idler arm efficiency is 25\%. }

  \textcolor{darkred}{ 4 points for the 25\% limit; 8 points for a few
  plots at different $\eta$ }
\item
  (8 pts) Consider again the configuration in Fig.~\ref{fig:hsps} b.
  Find the number of sources using PNR detectors needed to reach 98\%
  single photon herald probability and fidelity with $\eta = 0.8$. Also
  find the number of sources for $\eta = 0.95$.

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{ \textbf{Answer:} }
  \textcolor{midnightblue}{\includegraphics{chapter_05/figs_05/pnrTotalPerf.PNG}}

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{About
  $\boxed{\text{98 sources are needed for the case with an 80\% heralding}}$,
  }

  \textcolor{midnightblue}{about
  $\boxed{\text{23 sources are needed with 95\% efficient heralding}}$}

  \textcolor{darkred}{ 4 points for each of the 2 answers. Answers that
  vary from these values by 2-3 sources are acceptable. }
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{software-tools}{%
\chapter{Software Tools}\label{software-tools}}

\hypertarget{abstract-4}{%
\section{Abstract}\label{abstract-4}}

\hypertarget{software-systems-and-operation}{%
\section{Software Systems and
Operation}\label{software-systems-and-operation}}

\hypertarget{advanced-matplotlib-layouts-with-the-bisect-function}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{Advanced Matplotlib Layouts with the
\texttt{bisect()}
function}{Advanced Matplotlib Layouts with the bisect() function}}\label{advanced-matplotlib-layouts-with-the-bisect-function}}

It can be difficult to create complex plot layouts with matplotlib,
especially when the layout should have strict requirements, like
neighboring axes that are aligned with one another. Before explaining a
custom method for solving this problem through the use of a new function
\texttt{bisect()}, its worth reviewing the more accepted methods of
advanced matplotlib figure layout.

\hypertarget{subplot-mosaic}{%
\subsubsection{Subplot Mosaic}\label{subplot-mosaic}}

\href{https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/subplots_axes_and_figures/mosaic.html}{Subplot
mosaic} is a tool for specifying the layout of a figure with a special
python dictionary, demonstrated by this example from the docs:

\begin{minted}
[
frame=lines,
framesep=2mm,
baselinestretch=1,
bgcolor=extralightgray,
fontsize=\footnotesize,
linenos]
{python}
fig = plt.figure(layout="constrained")
ax_dict = fig.subplot_mosaic(
    [
        ["bar", "plot"],
        ["hist", "image"],
    ],
)
ax_dict["bar"].bar(["a", "b", "c"], [5, 7, 9])
ax_dict["plot"].plot([1, 2, 3])
ax_dict["hist"].hist(hist_data)
ax_dict["image"].imshow([[1, 2], [2, 1]])
identify_axes(ax_dict)
\end{minted}

\includegraphics{chapter_06/figs_06/sphx_glr_mosaic_001_2_0x.webp}

There are methods of changing the aspect ratios of the plots, but tools
for imposing alignment constraints across plots are limited. For
example, notice in the example above how the (1,1) plot axes are not
vertically aligned with the (0,1) plot above.

\hypertarget{gridspec}{%
\subsubsection{Gridspec}\label{gridspec}}

\href{https://matplotlib.org/stable/gallery/lines_bars_and_markers/scatter_hist.html\#sphx-glr-gallery-lines-bars-and-markers-scatter-hist-py}{Gridspec}
is a tool for more carefully specifying a grid layout. Space between
plots can be specified, and the relative widths or heights of columns
and rows can be customized. Gridspec offers a lot of control, but it
requires many custom parameters that can be unintuitive to derive.

\hypertarget{add_axes}{%
\subsubsection{Add\_axes}\label{add_axes}}

One of the simplest ways of adding subplots to a figure is with the
\texttt{fig.add\_axese(rect)} method. The
\texttt{rect\ =\ {[}ll\_x,\ ll\_y,\ width,\ height{]}} specifies the x
and y coordinate of the lower left corner with the first two parameters,
and the width and height with the second 2 parameters. Multiple uses of
\texttt{add\_axese()} offers maximum control for creating advanced
layouts, but specifying all the correct \texttt{rect} arrays can get
very confusing. Figure Fig.~\ref{fig:layout_sketch} illustrates the
types of calculations that become necessary when the specific location
and size of each subplot must be specified under certain constraints.

\hypertarget{fig:layout_sketch}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics{chapter_06/figs_06/layout_sketch.png}
\caption[{Rough sketch for layout with add\_axese()}]{\textbf{Sketch for
layout with add\_axese().}}
\label{fig:layout_sketch}
\end{figure}
}

\hypertarget{bisect-method}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\texttt{bisect()}
method}{bisect() method}}\label{bisect-method}}

\hypertarget{how-a-sorption-fridge-works}{%
\section{How A Sorption Fridge
Works}\label{how-a-sorption-fridge-works}}

use \boldsymbol for bold latex:

\textbf{Fidelity and Rates vs $\boldsymbol \mu$}

Here are a few bold characters together:
$\boldsymbol{\mu \quad \beta \quad \gamma}$

For units, use \mathrm{nm}: This is a number with units:
$138.3~\mathrm{nm}$

Refer to a figure with Fig.~\ref{fig:figurename} or
Fig.~\ref{fig:figurename} or for multiple Fig.~\ref{fig:figurename}

Until I figure something more shorthand, you can set colors with
``\textless span\textgreater{}'' tags:

{\color{midnightblue}  This text is blue. And it changes lightness when
darkmode is witched }

\hypertarget{fig:figurename}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_06/figs_06/fig1b_light.pdf}
\caption[{Figure label for in thesis index here.}]{\textbf{Caption title
here} a) Long caption here}
\label{fig:figurename}
\end{figure}
}

\hypertarget{fig:figurename2}{%
\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\textwidth,height=\textheight]{chapter_06/figs_06/hsps_light.pdf}
\caption[{Figure label for in thesis index here.}]{\textbf{Caption title
here} a) Long caption here}
\label{fig:figurename2}
\end{figure}
}

to have a ``\textasciitilde{}'' space in latex and a no break space in
html\ldots{} ``\&\#160'', just use ``~''. That's a forward slash and a
space.

The formatting of multi-line divs is very important. This will render
correctly:

{\color{midnightblue} 

$$math stuff 1$$

}

But this won't:

{\color{midnightblue} 

\begin{minted}
[
frame=lines,
framesep=2mm,
baselinestretch=1,
bgcolor=extralightgray,
fontsize=\footnotesize,
linenos]
{nil}
$$math stuff 2$$
\end{minted}

}

And this won't

\begin{minted}
[
frame=lines,
framesep=2mm,
baselinestretch=1,
bgcolor=extralightgray,
fontsize=\footnotesize,
linenos]
{nil}
$$math stuff 3$$

</div>
\end{minted}

the file where you're working on bokeh styling is at :

C:\Users\Andrew\OneDrive - California Institute of
Technology\JPL.Jitterate\peacoq\src\bokeh\_hists\_js\_callbacks.ipynb

\printbibliography
\end{document}
